Welcome back.
Before we start building our session management and our up I want to make sure that we're clear on what
we're building.
So I've created a few diagrams to go over the steps now now if you remember this is a token based authentication
we sign in by sending the user name and password.
The server does some work to make sure their username and password match.
And then we generate a JWT token which again we're going to do and then we're going to send that GWG
token back to the browser and on the browser we're going to store that token so that any time we need
to make a request like X saying profile 23 that we should have access to I send that GW token in the
authorization header as part of the request to the browser that browser simply Rantz the dot verify
on the token.
Make sure that it's a token that it's generated and it's going to send us the package the profile package
we'll call it a present.
So we have access to it.
And again with a cookie based authentication we send the username and password once again the server
does the work checks username and password generates a cookie a piece of string that is unique sends
it to the browser.
The browser remembers that as it's cookie and whenever it needs the profile 23 Well it's going to send
that information to the server.
The server is now going to check the piece of tax that is the cookie to the tax that it's stored.
And remember it in let's say a database.
And in this case you could have something like Pretis where Red is stores the session the piece of string
that the cookie is in.
So the server can say does this cookie exist.
And yeah I've created this cookie this cookie belongs to this user.
You can send him or her the package.
Go ahead well we're going to bill is actually an implementation of both of these.
And the reason I picked this way there's there's a few things I think it's a nice secure way of doing
things.
It gives you a bit of flexibility.
And this is how I actually implement authentication and sessions in my apps personal.
But it also teaches you both ways of doing things so that you can pick and choose and determine for
yourself what is best for you.
Well we're going to do is we're going to have user name and password check by the server and that's
something that we already do with our sign and endpoint.
And the smart braina we check the B script compare function and compare our past to the hash that is
stored in our database.
We then will generate a token.
Now this tokin is going to be sent back to the server and this tokin once again is going to be saved
on the browser.
They say server Yeah the token gets sent back to the browser.
The browser is going to save it and then any time we want to access the profile we're going to send
that token back to the browser or back to the server.
Now the difference here is up until this point we've kind of done JWT but instead of just running the
JWT tokin dot varify we're instead going to check our read us database which will create and connect
to our API and this database is going to be holding our JWT tokin strength so that we can check to see
in the rattus database.
Oia we have the JWT token.
So in similar ways to what we do with cookies and it's going to return true or false the server is then
once is checked that say all right this is a valid JWT token it hasn't actually decoded it it simply
just checks this session and then says all right you can have the present and you see here that we're
kind of combining these two methods instead of just verifying the GWG.
We actually store it on the database and check against it.
And like I said you get a bit of benefits from both of these.
By doing it this way with the downside of you missing out on the benefits of not having to store things.
If you use JWT.
But once again I think it's a good way of doing things and it demonstrates both situations.
So by the end of this section we're going to have this implemented and we're going to come back to this
diagram so it all makes sense.
I hope you're excited.
It's going to be a lot of work but also it's going to be a lot of fun.
I'll see in the next one.
Buh-Bye.